hi guys welcome to your eetu task of the
week for IELTS my name is Alex and I'm
one of the expert teachers here at e2
language well you've been asking and
we've been listening so here it is this
week's task of the week is IELTS
listening section three multiple choice
in today's class I'll give you an
overview of listening section three of
course we're going to practice multiple
choice then we'll review those questions
with the script and at the end I'll
recap some of the important vocab from
the task listening section three let's
talk about it so in general you're going
to get ten questions and you can expect
to have two three maybe four speakers
and it's always in an academic context
so you might hear students discussing a
presentation a tutor giving feedback to
a student classmates planning a project
and so on sometimes the speaker's agree
and sometimes they will disagree or they
might change their mind as they're
speaking section three is also tough
because it often involves multiple
choice questions why are multiple choice
questions so difficult well we get
requests all the time for this question
type so I'm going to show you how it
works and how to do well in this part of
the test one reason they're so tough
particularly in section three is that
there is a lot of text to read and not
much time to do it another factor is
that there are three possible options
and even though there's only one correct
answer the speakers will often mention
information or say vocabulary from the
two incorrect options so the answer may
be B but you'll hear vocabulary from a
and C and these are called distractors
you've probably heard this word before
destructors what are they are they just
a cruel trick by IELTS not really let me
explain how they work
imagine you have this question in a test
what color is Jenny's cat a blah
be Gracie ginger and then you hear this
little conversation Jenny what color is
your cat my cat is gray wonderful we
know here that the answer is gray of
course but if you couldn't speak English
at all you could probably guess this
answer just from the sound of the words
and I could probably guess this answer
in your language even though I don't
speak it at all so multiple choice
questions are not interested at all in
this superficial surface meaning a
multiple choice question is testing
do you understand deeply what you're
hearing so you're more likely to get a
question and answer like this Jenny what
color is your cat I really wanted a
ginger cat but our couch is gray so I
decided on a black one and the answer
would be black so now that we've made
peace with multiple choice let's do a
practice and by the way every week in
our live classes we tackle listening and
break it down remember you can access
some of our live classes when you sign
up for free at each of language comm and
access all of our live classes eight per
week as well as recorded classes submit
your work for feedback get one-on-one
tutorials chat with me and our other
experts when you upgrade your
subscription but for now let's practice
by just doing for questions today I'm
going to read through the first one with
you and give you some time to look at 22
23 and 24 before we hear the recording
question 21 how did Jamie choose the
topic for her presentation remember
we're in an academic context here so at
university jamie is probably a student
talking to tutor or professor
how did she choose the topic hey she saw
a film about it be the issue has been in
the media recently or see one of her
parents is an expert on it pause the
video now for 30 seconds and read
through 22 23 and 24
ready we're gonna do the first question
together here it is
hi Jamie thanks for coming in today
and let me start by saying well done on
a really great presentation oh thank you
I was actually very impressed with the
class overall and I could see you'd put
in a lot of work I sure did
but I must say it was surprisingly
enjoyable that's good now your topic was
genetically modified food and the
controversy surrounding it on both sides
of the political divide that's right so
how did you come to settle on this topic
was it because of all the articles about
GM food and the papers recently I
actually felt like the issue has dropped
out of the public consciousness lately I
haven't seen an article on it in the
mainstream media for a long time I do
remember that my dad used to get so
furious reading all about the plans to
expand GM crops and imports I see when I
saw that movie by The Naturalist ah I
forget his name the soil expert I guess
that's when I really got interested and
my presentation just flowed from there
yes I know the one they won several
awards so did you know much about GM
food prior to your research do you think
you got the right answer let's have a
look with the script now and check the
professor said so how did you come to
settle on this topic was it because of
all the articles about GM food in the
papers recently articles in the papers
this sounds like it could be option B
but is this why Jamie chose the topic
let's keep going Jamie says I actually
felt like the issue has dropped out of
the public consciousness lately I
haven't seen an article on it in the
mainstream media for a long time so
actually Jamie did not choose the topic
for her presentation because it's been
in the media she hasn't seen it
Media for a long time be is a classic
distractor wrong answer let's keep going
we've got a or C she saw a film or one
of her parents is next birth she went on
to say I do remember that my dad my
parent my dad used to get so furious
reading all about the plans to expand GM
crops and imports so mentioning her
parent here but it's her parent it's her
dad an expert's know he just used to get
annoyed hearing about it so it's not see
this eliminates being Cimiez answer must
be a but let's keep listening and check
when I saw that movie by the natural
ists I forget his name the soil expert
that's when I really got interested my
presentation flowed from there so that
correct answer gives a easy right now
it's over to you I'll play the recording
all the way through answer questions 22
23 and 24 good luck hi Jamie thanks for
coming in today and let me start by
saying well done on a really great
presentation oh thank you I was actually
very impressed with the class overall
and I could see you'd put in a lot of
work I sure did but I must say it was
surprisingly enjoyable that's good now
your topic was genetically modified food
and the controversy surrounding it on
both sides of the political divide
that's right so how did you come to
settle on this topic was it because of
all the articles about GM food and the
papers recently I actually felt like the
issue has dropped out of the public
consciousness lately I haven't seen an
article on it in the mainstream media
for a long time I do remember that my
dad used to get so furious reading all
about the plans to expand GM crops and
imports I see when I saw that movie by
The Naturalist ah I forget his name the
soil expert I guess that's when I really
got interested and my presentation just
flowed from there yes I know the one
they won several awards so did you know
much about GM food prior to your
research I thought I was an expert but
what I realize
through my reading for this presentation
was that had a really biased attitude I
mean I was only really aware of one half
of the argument I never read anything by
people who were in favor of GM
technology is obvious now but I don't
think I really understood the different
views on the matter yes that can happen
particularly these days with the way our
social media is curated how do you mean
well everyone's social media is
increasingly personalized the new
stories that appear on your Facebook
feed for instance tend to reflect the
political or social views you hold yeah
I guess you're right what do we do about
that though I mean we can't just
disregard everything we see right how do
we know which stories to trust how many
mainstream media it's more a matter of
consciousness I would say as long as you
understand the way modern marketing and
media work and their strategies you can
make informed choices about what you
read and how far you trust it do you
remember that mainstream media also has
its biases of course that's true now
back to your presentation I made notes
which I'll send through with your final
grade but I'm interested to know how you
feel about it were there any areas that
you were disappointed in I know you'd
been anxious about the technology side
of things I was last time I did a
presentation for my history subject it
was a disaster how so I think I was just
way too ambitious with the tech on that
occasion I had moving graphics and audio
and video and in the end it just
distracted from what I really wanted to
say that certainly wasn't the case this
time though no I think that's what I'm
unhappy about
I was so put off by the previous
experience that I went for just
bare-bones this time it was very
rudimentary really I wish I'd a bit
higher well that's something to keep in
mind for next time yeah a good lesson I
guess
do you think you've got all the
questions correct let's have a look and
analyze the script as we do it amusing
the script because I want to show you
the distractors and how they are worked
in here so question 22 Jaime says that
before this presentation she was in
difference she was strongly in favor or
she only knew one side of the argument
here is the start of the script the
professor says did you know much about
GM food prior to your research Jamie I
thought I was an expert but I what I
realized through my reading for this
presentation was that I'd had a really
biased attitude a biased attitude do you
know this word it means one-sided so the
answer cannot be a she was indifferent
she was not indifferent she was very
strongly one-sided so we can remove a
yeah Jamie goes on I mean I was only
really aware of one half of the argument
this sounds like C right I never read
anything by people who were in favor of
GM technology it's obvious now but I
don't think I really understood the
different views on the matter so what
she strongly in favor of GM food no she
only knew one side of the argument she
never read anything by people who were
in favor of GM technology so notice how
the distractors are working there you
probably heard the word favor and heard
the word different but these are not the
same meaning as option a and option B so
22 the answer is C question 23 now in
relation to social media the professor
advises Jamie to a ignore articles with
political messages be aware of the
techniques marketers use or trust only
stories from mainstream media let's see
the script here alright the professor
introduces the idea of social media that
can happen particularly these days with
the way
social media is curated Jamie asks how
do you mean professor well everyone's
social media is increasingly
personalized blah blah blah we haven't
got anything yet about what the
professor advises Jamie to do so let's
keep going
Jamie says I guess you're right what do
we do about that though I mean we can't
just disregard or ignore everything we
see right how do we know which stories
to trust only mainstream media so I'm
hearing vocabulary here from ABC but
remember that the question is asking me
about the professor what does the
professor advise so all this stuff from
Jamie is actually irrelevant
the professor it's more a matter of
consciousness I would say as long as you
understand the way modern marketing and
media work and the strategies you can
make informed choices about what you
read and how far you trust it do
remember that mainstream media also has
its biases so option a did the professor
advised her to ignore articles with
political messages no that's not
mentioned at all did the professor C say
only trust stories from mainstream media
no on the contrary mainstream media has
its biases the answer is B be aware be
conscious of the techniques of marketers
for question 24 I'm gonna show you the
script and the correct answer but this
time I want you to tell me why that
answer is correct and what the two
distractors are in the script pop it in
the comments below 24 what does Jamie
say about using technology in this
presentation
she found it harder than she'd expected
she should have been more ambitious or
she felt it distracted from her message
really key word in the question here is
this presentation because Jamie talks
about presentation she did before for
history and compares it to this
presentation here is the script
read-through look for the answer and the
two distractors
you
the conversation continues the professor
asks how so again read through find the
destructors and the answer
final bit of the script
and the answer hopefully you've got it
right is B so let me know in the
comments why is it B why not a why not
see here are all the questions here are
the answers a see B B how did you go
remember to subscribe to our YouTube
channel like comment share we're always
listening so if you've got something
that you'd like us to cover in an
upcoming task of the week just pop it
down below if you want to know when our
live classes happen we have them twice a
day over on e to language comm so you
can register there and sign up for each
live class live classes on YouTube
happen spontaneously so just make sure
that you're a subscriber and we'll let
you know when we're going live during
the class today
if you didn't get all the answers
correct perhaps it was a matter of vocab
here's a list of the vocabulary that was
really important to know to answer the
questions today write down these words
and let me know how are you going to
remember these words how are you going
to use them you could pop them into your
speaking as well and into your writing
this kind of vocabulary is part of your
IELTS preparation everyday you need to
learn some new words so this is your
word list for today by the way guys
remember to submit your writing for the
chance to be selected for life writing
feedback how does it work let me explain
you're going to submit your essay via
the link below and be sure to sign up as
a free member at e2 language calm and
come along to our free live class on
April 12th in that class I'm going to go
through three of the essays that I've
selected and show you the good things
and they're not so good things and show
you how to get a seven or an eight here
is the topic you should write about grab
a screenshot or write it down and
remember to submit your essay by the 5th
of April and sign up at e2 language comm
for your own live class on
the 12
thank you for watching and I look
forward to seeing you next week on
another task of the week happy studying
[Music]